{:title "Tetris in clojurescript and re-frame Part 3 - App State"
 :layout :post
 :tags  ["tetris" "clojuresrcipt" ]}
 
## App State

There is a big conceptual difference between javasrcipt and clojurescript (especially in re-frame). Whereas in 
javascript you can have as much global state as you want it is discouraged to do so in the cljs-sphere. It
is generally advised to have one to a few atoms containing your global application state.  
In re-frame it is even more better, you don't declare an atom or global state at all, it is managed by re-frame 
completely.

In re-frame there is data flowing in events, this is the general idea, for a very complete documentation, please
look here: [re-frame](https://github.com/Day8/re-frame)

First we will initialize the app state. As you saw in part 2 there is already a call to the dispatch function
doing that: **(rf/dispatch [:initialise-db])**.

Now we will add a new file **handlers.cljs** with the following content:

    (defn get-clean-db-state []
      {:ctx            (.getContext (h/get-elem "tetris-canv") "2d")
       :grid-state     [[] []]
       :initialized?   true
       :started?       false
       :grid-h         20
       :grid-w         10
       :start-timestep 1000
       :timestep-dim   0.1})
    
    (register-handler
      :initialise-db
      (fn [_ _]
        (get-clean-db-state)))
        
The first function returns a map which is the app state of the application after the initialization. This is where we
store our _global_ and _local_ data. Also you can see that we finally initialize the canvas and also store that
in the app state.  
The second function **register-handler** registers a handler for the **:initialize-db** event. This will be called
whenever we call **(re-frame/dispatch [:initialise-db])** and for now it returns the app state from 
**get-clean-db-state**.

A **register-handler** function will always have to return the app state, no matter if it was manipulated or not.

* :ctx is a reference to the canvas element
* :grid-state is a 2-dimensional vector which represents the tetris field. Each entry will represent a tetriminio 
(1 - 7) or nothing (0).
* :started? indicates whether the game was started or not
* :grid-w and :grid-h are the respective width and height entries
* :start-timestep is the time for the ticker at which the game will run.
* :timestep-dim is the percentage at that the ticker speed will be reduced after each level up


